hello again everyone so glad you decided
to tune in
part 10 the history of xinjiang
and finally in this episode for the
first time since the beauty of lolan
graced our podcast in part one this land
will officially be given that
xinjiang moniker a place with so many
past
names that had endured so many
conquerors and
transformations over the millennia
everything
starts to take on a more familiar shape
now events that happened in xinjiang
during this
qing dynasty era ended up having a
recognizable direct influence on today's
xinjiang
we're going to enter relatively modern
times for chinese history that is
the 1700s
not even the new york yankees of the
late 1920s had a lineup like that
the qing will never again see better
days than these and the map of china by
the time these three manchu ching
emperors get done with it
will never look bigger and better in a
relatively short period of time
the land mass of china will double in
size
with tibet xinjiang taiwan
mongolia and manchuria all packed on top
of the core lands of northern and
southern china
in fact if you peel away outer mongolia
the map of china during the qing dynasty
looks
pretty much like today's map of the prc
i'm getting ahead of myself just
offering a taste of what's to come we
left off
last time in 1689 galdon was the ruler
of the tongars and
did he ever have grand designs for his
state
after everything had been worked out
between china and russia and the treaty
of near chinsk and the dust had settled
and the kalka mongols were all on the
ching empire side of the new border
that's when the kangshi
emperor decided to rid his empire of
this menace in the northwest and grab
all that tsungar territory for the
greatness and glory of his own
qing empire that turned out to be
another case of easier said than done
galdon's grand vision had one big
strategic problem and this is going to
doom
the zungar khanate in the end they were
hemmed in from all directions by russia
tibet and china and galdon went to great
lengths to make
alliances with the russians but they
knew who buttered their bread and the
russians didn't want to do anything that
was going to put a crimp
in their fur trading business with china
let's face it
the tsungar state hardly had the
merchandise bounty that china had to
offer
so from the beginning they didn't have a
lot to bargain with
so after the treaty of near chins with
the dungars in a tight spot
that's when the kangshi emperor decided
in july of 1690
to mount a campaign to put an end to
what the zumgars had going on in china's
northwest border and furthermore because
if you want something done right you
best do it yourself
he was going to lead 60 000 ching troops
in this campaign personally and when the
first battle ensued
galdon though far outnumbered gave the
ching army a bit of a drubbing
and using his home field advantage so to
speak galdon ran the qing army
all over the place and played
rope-a-dope with them until things
concluded with
no clear winner on either side and all
the while
kang shi was stressing out that the
zungars were going to be able to
convince the russians
to ally with them and ruin his best laid
plans
perhaps the main reason for the treaty
of near chins besides
settling borders was to isolate these
oyrat mongols in their dzungar khanate
and prevent them from becoming too
friendly with russia
but the qing emperor had nothing to
worry about as the russians didn't see
anything and supporting the tsungars
that benefited them and they opted on
the side of
china trade versus galdon military
adventurism
on september 3rd 1690 kangshi's forces
finally caught up with the tsungars
and handed them a defeat at ullan bhutan
near where bay liaoning and inner
mongolia all come together
a five-hour drive north of beijing
after galdon's army suffered this defeat
he managed to escape and plan to
hide out until he could rebuild his
military forces
something kang shi was trying hard to
prevent
it took six years but on april 1st 1696
kangshi launched a second campaign that
he also led personally
and this time at jiaomando just east of
today's oolon batur
galdon's forces were attacked by kalka
mongols
ally to the ching and this ended up
being a
devastating defeat for galdon and with
his troops annihilated he was forced to
retreat and
find a place to hide but kang shi was
not going to rest until galdon was
defeated
in full retreat his army gone and
suffering from smallpox
on april 4th 1697 galdon died and
coughed
just over the xinjiang border in
mongolia
on the other side of the all-time
mountains some records say
he took his own life by taking poison no
eyewitnesses
and those desperate moments could say
for sure and if you read the chinese
version
he killed himself one of the legends
says that
after galdon died his remains which had
already been cremated
were delivered to the kangashi emperor
and so
and raged was he about all the headaches
galdon had caused him all those years
he had the ashes and bones of this
former tsungar khan
ground down to a powder and scattered to
the winds
kang shi emperor he sure taught galdon a
lesson
waiting in the wings to take over was
galdon's nephew who was also his biggest
political enemy after the kang shi
emperor and this was tawang rabdhan
he became the next great power in the
tsungar state
under his rule the tsungars had a nice
period where their house was put back in
order and by 1715 after enjoying
this small peace dividend they were in
better shape than they had ever been
but everything remained quiet on the
western front nobody was giving anyone
any
significant trouble yet so long rob dunn
he had more manageable dreams than his
uncle galdon
he had one main goal and that was to
build a strong
and prosperous zungar state without the
empire part
he turned out to be a good ruler and
promoted trade rather than
warring on his enemies now when it came
to china this is mostly true but with
the russians well more than a few
scuffles broke out over trade and the
tribute rituals that were supposed to
frame and organize the two-way commerce
they carried out
in 1713 there had been a false alarm in
tungaria
it was thought that gold had been
discovered and this had gotten the
russians quite excited and even peter
the great was told of this find
that tsar sent a team to investigate
this potential good news
tungaria as this northern half of
xinjiang was called
needed this desperately they really
didn't have anything like the chinese
did with silk
porcelain tea and other manufactures and
they
at that time had no idea about all the
oil and minerals buried deep under the
taran basin
the russians of course had their furs
the jungars
had nothing of the sword which always
put them at a trade disadvantage
so this news that they had struck gold
offered great hope but alas it wasn't
meant to be
despite the ultimate let down during the
early phase when russian interest in
sungar gold was sky high
sawang robdon used this opportunity to
improve relations with the russians
and he tried to do a little pr to
attract them over to the tsungar side
but without much to entice them with
in the end the only thing of value that
the tsungars could make good on was to
allow russians to build forts
on zungar land
meanwhile in the kangxi emperor's last
years he was able to see a small victory
when the qing
army was able to seize and hold hami
in the north of the turpan basin they
held it and controlled it
fighting off a number of raids by
tsungar fighters
by 1718 the qing had turned this toehold
and hami
into the entirety of the turpan basin
and this was the first time
since the tang dynasty that a chinese
empire
albeit ruled by manchus have been able
to grab onto a piece of xinjiang
their opening had come when the local
muslim populace and hami
who were being oppressed by these
tibetan buddhists hungers
and they invited the qing army into
their region and were only too happy to
be taken over by
a state other than the tsungars so
despite all that action
things between the zungars the russians
and with china
remained relatively peaceful into the
1720s and
30s all three rivals pulled in their
horns
and focused on trade and making the most
out of the
often under-appreciated benefits of
peace
the qing might not have been engaging in
any open confrontations but they were
still
busy planning for the future working on
building
and maintaining supply lines between
core
china and the far west that was always
the killer
even in the 18th century without motor
transportation or
railroads logistics were a nightmare
and moving an army that far threw off an
inhospitable lands
he was always the bane of every general
even if you made it to xinjiang alive
you still had to maintain yourself so
creating the
infrastructure was well underway for
when the time came
for the time being the manchu ching
government took a page out of the tongue
dynasty playbook and used this footprint
in the turpan basin to establish
themselves
first utilizing the place as a penal
colony to
send undesirables from china forts were
built
followed by the introduction of more
civilians to the area
and it didn't take long after that
before the qing ruler
peered over the other side of the
tenshon
and started prospecting for future
expansion plans in xinjiang
and in the final couple years of the
kangxi emperor's life
the qing went on a campaign to reel in
tibet
into the china fold and thanks to all
the political intrigue and
infighting going on in tibet in 1720
that time was ripe for the chinese to
take advantage of the situation
and get set up in lhasa and start
planting some roots
that zumgars and tibet end up in
xinjiang obviously didn't like this
they had tried to counter china's moves
but
they were outmaneuvered there and ended
up getting kicked out of tibet
from 1723 to 1735 the young chung
emperor ruled from beijing
flush with victory in tibet and with a
military government established in lhasa
he figured now wouldn't be a bad time to
head north and
go take xinjiang too the qing dynasty
was on a roll in popular history we
mostly remember them as the sick man of
asia
the tonya bingfu the facilitators of
china's so-called century of humiliation
but in the 1720s
china was anything but that the
government and the military were
firing on all 12 cylinders and also
by the way gunpowder weapons around this
time
early 18th century really came of age in
terms
of their destructive powers and accuracy
a new kind of violence was being
experienced for the first time
on the fields of battle so with his eyes
turned towards xinjiang
the youngjung emperor decided to give
the tsungars an offer
which if you had to whittle it down to
seven words went like
submit to the great qing or else the
zungar is up in the northwest of what is
today china
they were never a political or military
threat to the chinese empire but all the
same they were a
pain in the ass to have on china's
border and in the chinese eyes at least
we're a real lousy next-door neighbor
there was always a
steady drip of border raids and
skirmishes
but the yong chung emperor wanted peace
not
war so he was really hoping for a
diplomatic solution
but that like a lot of things also
wasn't meant to be tuhang robdhan was
assassinated during a squabble between
factions in the djungar government
this was in 1727 the year the
treaty of kyota was signed remember that
from chp 181
early years of sino-russian relations
besides settling on a trading regimen
that lasted about a century
the qing were able to negotiate a deal
that ensured
the russians would not support the
zungars
in any of their adventures so with their
leader gone
and with this treaty signed 1727
wasn't such a great year for the zhungar
nation and the kyata treaty
well if china wanted to go in and make
trouble for the jungars
the russians would not be coming to
their aid
the next ruler was the son of tsuwang
robdhan this was
galdon soren there was a
lull in the fighting for a while as both
sides waited to see what the
future portended emperor yongjung
extended an olive branch to galdon soren
offering trade concessions in the form
of
tribute missions and offers to settle
border disputes
and making this peace offering the qing
emperor had only one
non-negotiable condition the zungars
had to stay out of tibet all yong chung
was doing
was simply carrying out the kangxi
emperor's same exact policy of
isolating the tsungars like father like
son
galdon siren realized that zungar's
strategic position was not at all good
and that
the door was pretty well closed shut as
far as making any deals with the
russians
tibetans or mongols by 1729
the tsungars were no longer dealing in
good faith with the manchu ching
negotiators
that is to say they weren't willing to
accede to china's demands
so the young chung emperor began
discussing at the imperial court
the destruction of the tsungars claiming
that they had always been dealing in bad
faith and were causing trouble for china
going back to galdon's time the emperor
was
livid that all mongol nations except the
tsungars
had already submitted to the qing what
was taking so long
with these particular mongols in
xinjiang
in april 1729 yongjung gave the qing
army marching orders
they started preparing to head west to
take down the zongars
but then suddenly two things happened
that called a halt to this
first the emperor's brother and key
advisor died
and then the tsungar ruler galdan siren
agreed to hand over one of the key
rebels who had caused so much grief for
the qing in tibet
they had been demanding that zungar
surrendered this guy to them but up till
now
they wouldn't give in to this demand so
this rebel
got handed over and for now the
situation was
diffused no one was calling for the
destruction of anyone
but yongjung will keep hoping to finish
the job begun by the kangashi
emperor but try as he did that zungars
remained too tough an opponent to take
down
for the next 20 years it was relatively
quiet and the jungars tried to bide
their time
and build their strength and continue to
find ways to work around this
policy of diplomatic isolation the qing
government had so successfully imposed
on them
then in 1735 the young jung emperor
died and with him went his dreams of
being the one to finish off this
troublesome neighbor in the northwest
he had gone to a lot of time and great
expense to vanquish the dzongars but in
the end they were still standing
up next on the dragon throne in beijing
was the
long reigning chien long emperor
his initial plan was to tame the
tsungars through the one thing that
mattered to them most
and that was with trade tribute trade of
course it was like a foreign policy
and an old tried and true way of
managing outsiders
by 1739 it had all been worked out and
what followed was
15 years of relative peace
as was their way that zungar started to
make a mockery of this whole tribute
trade ritual
it was very strictly regimented and
followed a prescribed ritual
that called for a certain amount of
trade missions per trading season
and whatnot and the whole process was
supposed to appear
on the outside at least like tribute
trading missions
you know in my years of trading and
manufacturing in china
even i have to say there were some
traders from certain countries
and i will not name names but they were
a pain and they you know what
it was just their way they had a certain
manner
in the way they did things it was part
of their business culture
and as a seller what else could i do
except put up with it
well it was sort of like this with the
dungars in short
they wore out their welcome with the
chen long emperor
and then in 1745 opportunity knocked on
the chen long emperor's royal door
the jungar ruler galdan siren died
suddenly
and his successor was later on
assassinated
and of course in the fallout of all this
came a period of political instability
in zungaria complete with succession
crisis
it was very bloody and violent and with
relations deteriorating between the
zungars and the qing government
and with chien long feeling extremely
impatient
amidst this political crisis trade was
cut off with the tsunggars in the final
trade mission
finished in 1754. now the manchu ching
military
started preparing for war unlike grandpa
kang shi
chin long never led troops into battle
and was more of what you might call an
armchair general
he never even got to visit xinjiang but
he had a vision
for that land and what he intended to do
with it
and he would not rest until he had
finished
what his grandfather started at the dawn
of the 18th century
the tungar leader at this time was
amarsana
he was deep in a power struggle when in
a moment of desperation
he sent an envoy to the chen long
emperor requesting him to come to his
aid
seeing a perfect opportunity to place
himself
in the middle of this tsungar power
struggle at the end of 1754
chien long sent his army west and with a
little help from the qing
amarsana had been able to secure the top
spot
in the tsungar nation and for all this
support from the qian long emperor
amarsana did that one thing
that ching emperors had been demanding
going back to kanshi
to submit to china amarsana did the deed
and with china's support was able to
assume the leadership of the comet
and as part of the deal chien long was
going to be invited in to have
a hand in zungara affairs this was going
to be
a brand new alliance but
amarsana was thinking one thing and the
chiang lang emperor had something else
in mind
amarsana was hoping cian long would make
him khan of
all oyrot mongols that comprise the
tsungar nation
chin long was thinking more about making
amarsana only one of four khans
ruling over the four main oyrot tribes
and there lie the rub
as soon as amarsana realized what the
chin long emperor had in mind for him
well he started to have second thoughts
and decided
if he couldn't get what he wanted the
deal was off and he was not going to
submit to the qing
imagine how the qian long emperor must
have felt sending troops to help
amarsana in his power struggle
and now this khan goes and turns his
back on the qing emperor
amarsana surely knew what was coming
next and he started to shop for
potential allies
but there were nothing to be had the
manchu ching government had done an
admirable job of
isolating the tsungars all these years
offering a piece of china's bounty
to anyone thinking about straying to the
other side
it works in 2020 and it also worked well
for the qing
back then who could say no so what
happened next
was that chen long mobilized his armies
and
called for an all-out no-holds-barred
scorched earth policy take no prisoners
the mission was to wipe out the tungars
his instructions specifically used the
word
to exterminate he meant business this
time
before this all began chienlong had to
first deal with an uprising by the kalka
mongols
they had submitted to the qing all those
years ago and after all this time it
passed they
felt that well the benefits they had
expected
never materialized so it took till
january 1757
to put this culka revolt down well
if you ask the mongols today about this
episode in history they'll call this a
patriotic uprising as far as how china
saw it
to them it was a revolt tomato tomato
and when chienlong's ching army bore
down on the zungars
they could never deliver the death punch
and victory was taking
much longer than expected and the chen
long emperor was
breathing fire in his frustration about
how long it was taking
to capture amarsana zungaria was being
pulverized in the process and the
emperor called for
well for lack of a better word a
massacre of the tsungars
starting with those who had been taken
prisoner and then working the way up
slowly to women and children who
more often than not were enslaved by
july 1757
amersana was sick with smallpox and
he knew he wasn't long for this world he
ended up dying two months later in
september
after surrendering to the russians he
was 35.
and check this out when the qin long
emperor demanded amarsana's remains
so that he could get the same pleasure
as his ancestor the kang shi emperor
publicly grinding his vanquished enemies
remains
down to dust well the russians said yet
they wouldn't hand over the body so the
chien long emperor was denied
the personal pleasure of inflicting
post-death punishment
it was all over by 1758 this
conquest of xinjiang as for the tsungars
well they came to a bad end i suppose
you could say
starvation quickly followed in the wake
of the destruction
meted out by the qing troops the emperor
would not allow any grain or foodstuffs
to be sent there
women were sold into slavery emperor
cienlong had a
nasty hatred for these people for all
the grief they had caused him
in the qing dynasty he had concluded
you just couldn't trust them they submit
and then rebel
time and again they had to go and go
they did one ching era historian had
written of this
zungar genocide that of the 600 000 or
so dungars
numbering several hundred thousand
households
forty percent died of smallpox percent
fled to kazakh lands west of xinjiang
thirty percent were outright killed by
the qing army
and the others were enslaved and for a
long time
afterward zungaria was one big
empty space until later on after it was
populated with
manchu bannermen other turkic peoples
and han settlers from the east
mostly from qinghai next door and these
hungarian lands also became a convenient
dumping ground for disgraced officials
and a great number of political figures
outmaneuvered by their enemies at the
imperial court let me quote from peter
perdue's book
china marches west the ching conquest of
central asia
he said quote until this time the qing
rulers had
primarily adopted the time-honored
diplomacy of using barbarians to fight
barbarians by
alternately supporting different
factions of nomads against one another
or else they executed individual
ringleaders of rebellions
but they had never attempted ethnic
genocide before
with this policy the qing succeeded in
imposing a final solution to china's
northwest frontier problems
which lasted for about a century that
zungars
disappeared as a state and as a people
and the hungarian steppe
was almost completely depopulated end
quote
another qing historian had described the
place as quote
an empty plane for a thousand lee with
no trace of a man
end quote so what happened after that
well the war turned out to be easier
than the peace anyway you looked at it
xinjiang was still far away from
everywhere in china
except gansu a qing military base was
set up in a room chi
but colonization was going to take time
and a lot of money
land grants loans and promises of seed
and livestock were offered as incentives
to get people
moving in that direction sort of like
the 40 acres in a mule that
william tecumseh sherman called for
after the
american civil war and i think i
mentioned in one of these
past episodes xinjiang was huge
today the largest province land wise in
china
even if you took out the taklomakan
desert it was still
a lot of territory to control so the
immediate policy following the tsungar
conquest was to
leave the running of things for now to
the local muslim begs
and local families who carried enough
prestige and dignitas that
allowed them to be accepted by the
locals as rulers
these people were called kojas
in the southern portion of the taran
basin these local
muslim strong men continued to run
affairs without any
qing interference the southern part of
xinjiang was referred to as the hui
means muslim and boo means among other
definitions
portion or part the northern part was
called zungaria or the
the task at hand for the qing dynasty
was gargantuan to say the least
the financial cost of the conquest was
such that
there was very little left in the
treasury to incorporate xinjiang into
the chinese nation
it was going to take a lot of time and
imagination
this was far from the center
geographically mammoth in size and
contained all the logistical headaches
you'd expect
and the people there were overwhelmingly
not han
chinese and this also presented a whole
lot of other problems
and just as elements of the us
government had said the
second iraq war would pay for itself
with oil well
a similar line of thinking was banded
about by the faction that had called for
the
annexation of xinjiang measures were
implemented that
in theory would make xinjiang as
self-sufficient as possible so that it
would not be a
financial burden on the center this
matter had been argued vociferously at
the qing court before the conquest
and now afterwards as well for the
immediate time being
the qing authorities were left with no
choice
but to use the karakitai method of
governing and left the
day-to-day management of each city and
town in the hands of the locals
as long as taxes were paid no one
suffered any grief initially the qing
set up a military government based in
ening
in the ili valley northwest xinjiang
near the kazakhstan border
and from this base the qing government
theoretically administered
all of xinjiang additional offices would
be set up in more cities
and with the population of xinjiang
being as diverse as it was
culturally and linguistically the qing
administrators had to really
exercise a high degree of flexibility
on how they ran things taking into
consideration
all the ethnic peculiarities from place
to place
this was how they managed the north of
xinjiang as for the south
they stuck with the bags for the time
being a bag
was a uyghur word that meant a noble
used initially for a mongol noble but
later used for any xinjiang aristocrat
in the south
they were left in charge and reported to
manchu bannermen
who took their orders from beijing there
were about
300 of these bags all over the province
and after the initial takeover of
xinjiang
they acted as the bureaucrats the hakeem
bags were special because they had been
the ones who
if you recall invited the ching into
hami and turpan to help get rid of the
jungars
they had signed up early with the ching
and got to reap the benefits
for the next several decades a massive
campaign was carried
out trying to repopulate the depopulated
northern hump of xinjiang
often called zungaria people were
brought in from all over to bring the
place back to life
this is where urumchi starts to become
the
preeminent city in xinjiang during the
start of the conquest urumqi was taken
quickly in battle by the qing in 1755
not yet a place of importance it won't
be till
1831 when the qing rulers felt ready to
start working on the southern half of
xinjiang
allowing han chinese settlement in the
tauren basin for the first time
with all the available incentives many
chinese look to xinjiang
as a land of potential opportunity
everyone knew that well while maybe the
climate was unbearable
at least it was still in china and not
some distant foreign land
and for the enterprising han from the
interior of china
of which there was no shortage there
were all kinds of opportunities in
trading
services and merchandising to the local
populace
jade from koton had always been a
tightly regulated business
but now the unstable environment was
perfect for this to be
illegally transported east and smugglers
were doing a brisk business
these same places in the southwest of
xinjiang
as they were in hanudi's time and all
throughout history
khotan yar khan kashgar despite the
on and off unrest all continued to be
great markets and
regional trading centers do you remember
back in the han dynasty they instituted
this
twin tian system where soldiers would
create these farms that engaged in
agriculture and animal husbandry with
the sole purpose of providing for the
troops garrisoned out there
allowing them to be self-sufficient and
not reliant on the state
well the whole notion was reintroduced
with great fervor and was
scaled up to the nth degree in order to
allow
the ching military stationed out there
to be self-sustaining for food
and again these troops were mostly
based in the north in zungaria
well as far as what happened after the
qian long emperor
that is going to have to wait until next
episode in part 11.
i was worried i'd finish in 11 episodes
but i can tell you with a high degree of
authority
this is only going to 12 episodes the
longest series yet here at the chp
okay patreon.com everyone billions of my
patrons have been checking out
all the stories from my life and career
way
way too sordid to tell on this
respectable rss feed
all the details are available on my web
page and show notes
patreon.com china history podcast
three smackers a month and you get to
not always but quite often indeed
get an advance listen of all the latest
chp episodes
sometimes days before the usual sunday 5
pm la time slot
teacup dot media for links
okay that's going to be it for me this
time anyway
for sure you won't want to miss the next
episode jakub beg
the reconquest of xinjiang and the great
man himself
who brought us general tor's chicken all
for next time
until then this be lazlo montgomery the
proprietor of this joint
going on 11 years now wishing that
you'll join me next time
for another exciting episode of the
china history podcast